## Gossip task division simulation

This program simulates a multi-agent task division problem with gossip.

### Running the program

Required python version: Developed for 3.7, but any version above 3 should work.

To run the program with default arguments, execute: 

```python3 main.py```

#### Program arguments

Running `python3 main.py -h` will output what arguments can be used in this program. 
```
usage: main.py [-h] [--iterations ITERATIONS] [--repeats REPEATS]
               [--readcosts READ_COSTS [READ_COSTS ...]]

Simulate gossip task division

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --iterations ITERATIONS
                        How many iterations should the simulation run?
                        (default is 100)
  --repeats REPEATS     How many times should each iterations repeat?
                        (default: 20)
  --readcosts READ_COSTS [READ_COSTS ...]
                        What read costs should be used? Each value will be
                        simulated separately. (default: 1 5 10)
```
An example of using these arguments:

```python3 main.py --iterations 200 --repeats 30 --readcosts 1 5 10 30```

##### Iterations

To export the energy per agent data, multiple iterations have to be run, starting out with 1 agent, and ending with 200 agents. 
The amount of steps between is set with this variable. A higher value will thus take longer to simulate. Multiple iterations are run multithreaded.

##### Repeats

Each data point has to be repeated multiple times to remove the natural randomness of the output of the simulation (energy used). 
For our simulations we generally used 15 repeats per data point. A higher value will take longer to simulate.

##### Read costs

All iterations will be repeated for each value of read costs which is given here. If for example the given values are `[1 5 10 30]`,
the program will first do all iterations for read_cost: 1, then do all iterations with read_cost: 5, etc... All this data will be exported separately.  

#### Program output

The data generated by this program will be exported to the `%projecthome%/data/` folder in the project working directory. 
The exact output location of the csv files is printed to the console when running a test is complete.

### Plotting the data

We use Matlab/Octave to create graphs of our data, which is stored in csv files.
1. Generate csv files using the python script `main.py`
2. Make sure the Matlab working directory is `%projecthome%/matlab/` (this can be done by simply calling the program from that directory)
3. Edit `main.m` in the Matlab folder, adjust the parameters `iterations`, `repeats`, and `readCosts` to the values used before. 
4. Run the program with either Matlab or Octave (On Windows this is done with `octave-cli.exe main.m`)
5. The Matlab program will export PNG images to the `%projecthome%/data/` directory, the exact directory will be printed by the program.

### Collaborators: 
* Ruurd Bijlsma
* Jorge Anton Garcia
* Alexandros Charisis
* Ethelbert Uzodinma
